The iPhone 4 is a smartphone that was developed and marketed by Apple Inc. It is the fourth generation of the iPhone lineup, succeeding the iPhone 3GS and preceding the iPhone 4s. Following a number of notable leaks, the iPhone 4 was first unveiled on June 7, 2010, at Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco,[7] and was released on June 24, 2010, in the United States, United Kingdom, France, Germany, and Japan.

The iPhone 4 introduced a new hardware design to the iPhone family, which Apple's CEO Steve Jobs touted as the thinnest smartphone in the world at the time; it consisted of a stainless steel frame which doubled as an antenna, with internal components situated between two panels of aluminosilicate glass.[8] The iPhone 4 introduced Apple's new high-resolution "Retina display" (with a pixel density of 326 pixels per inch), while maintaining the same physical size and aspect ratio as its precursors, Apple's A4 system-on-chip, along with iOS 4—which notably introduced multitasking functionality and app folders. It was the first iPhone at the time to include a front-facing camera, which made possible Apple's new FaceTime video chat service, and the first to be released in a version for CDMA networks, ending AT&T's period as the exclusive carrier of iPhone products in the United States.

The iPhone 4 received a largely positive reception, with critics praising its revamped design and more powerful hardware, in comparison to previous models. While it was a market success (with over 600,000 pre-orders within 24 hours), the release of the iPhone 4 was plagued by highly publicized reports concerning abnormalities in its new antenna design that caused the device to lose its cellular signal if held in a certain way. Most direct contact with the phone's outer edge would cause a significant decrease in signal strength. Apple released iOS 4.0.1 to try to fix these issues, but were unsuccessful.[9]

The iPhone 4 spent the longest time as Apple's flagship iPhone model at fifteen months. Although the succeeding 4S was announced in October 2011, the 4 continued to be sold as a midrange model until September 2012, and thereafter as the entry-level offering in Apple's lineup until September 2013 with the announcement of the iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c. The iPhone 4 had one of the longest lifespans of any iPhone ever produced, spanning close to four years and available in some developing countries until early 2015.